Whitelist implementation (#26)
near/initial-contracts: whitelist/README.md

# Whitelist contract for staking pools

The purpose of this contract is to maintain the whitelist of the staking pool contracts account IDs that are approved
by NEAR Foundation.

> In order for the lockup contracts to be able delegate to a staking pool, the staking pool should provide spec guarantees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for the lockup contracts to be able delegate to a staking pool, the staking pool should faithfully implement the spec.
```

> The staking pool should guarantee that the delegated tokens can't be lost or locked, such as the lockup contract should be

Reviewer: Nit avoid contractions in spec/formal writing.
```suggestion
The staking pool should guarantee that the delegated tokens can not be lost or locked, such as the lockup contract should be
```

> able to recover delegated tokens back to the lockup from a staking pool. In order to enforce this, only the whitelisted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
able to recover delegated tokens back to the lockup from a staking pool. In order to enforce this, only approved (whitelisted)
```

> staking pool contracts and accounts can receive delegated tokens.

Reviewer: > staking pool contracts and accounts

This seems confusing.  Aren't the contracts the same as the account associated with the contract?

Author: Updated

> If NEAR Foundation has to approve every single staking pool account it might lead to a bottleneck and to the centralization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If NEAR Foundation has to approve every single staking pool account it might lead to a bottleneck and the centralization
```

> of the decision making. To address this NEAR Foundation can whitelist the account IDs of the staking pool factory contracts.

Reviewer: It is explained below.
```suggestion
To address this NEAR Foundation can whitelist the account IDs of staking pool factory contracts.
```

> The approved (whitelisted) staking pool factory contract will be able to whitelist staking pools contract accounts.

Reviewer: Introduced `whitelested` above.
```suggestion
The whitelisted staking pool factory contract will be able to whitelist staking pools contract accounts.
```

> The idea behind a factory contract is that it can create and setup a staking pool contract in a secure way and a permissionless way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A factory contract creates and initializes a staking pool contract in a secure and permissionless way.
```

> This allows anyone on the network to be able to create a staking pool contract for themselves without going through NEAR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows anyone on the network to be able to create a staking pool contract for themselves without needing approval from the NEAR
```

> Foundation approval. This is important to maintain the decentralization of the decision making and network governance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Foundation. This is important to maintain the decentralization of the decision making and network governance.
```

To be able to address mistakes, NEAR Foundation has the ability to remove staking pools and staking pool factories from the whitelists.

## Requirements and guarantees

- The account of the whitelist contract should not contain any access keys, to avoid it from being deleted.

> - If the account run out of tokens for storage, any account can fund it. In theory the gas rebates may cover the storage in the long term.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the account runs out of tokens for storage, any account can fund it. In theory the gas rebates may cover the storage in the long term.
```

> - `is_whitelisted` call doesn't panic, unless it's given insufficient amount of gas or the invalid account ID.

Reviewer: Should this say `view call`?

Reviewer: Or the only time this is called by other contracts is when they are executing a change call?

Author: It's both. Contracts call it through a regular `change call`, but it can also be checked using `view call`

pub fn is_whitelisted(&self, staking_pool_account_id: AccountId) -> bool;

/// Returns `true` if the given factory contract account ID is whitelisted.
pub fn is_factory_whitelisted(&self, factory_account_id: AccountId) -> bool;

/************************/
/* Factory + Foundation */
/************************/

/// Adds the given staking pool account ID to the whitelist.
/// Returns `true` if the staking pool was not in the whitelist before, `false` otherwise.
/// This method can be called either by the NEAR foundation or by a whitelisted factory.
pub fn add_staking_pool(&mut self, staking_pool_account_id: AccountId) -> bool;

/**************/
/* Foundation */
/**************/

/// Removes the given staking pool account ID from the whitelist.
/// Returns `true` if the staking pool was present in the whitelist before, `false` otherwise.
/// This method can only be called by the NEAR foundation.
pub fn remove_staking_pool(&mut self, staking_pool_account_id: AccountId) -> bool;

/// Adds the given staking pool factory contract account ID to the factory whitelist.
/// Returns `true` if the factory was not in the whitelist before, `false` otherwise.

> /// This method can be called either by the NEAR foundation.

Reviewer: Do you mean this?
```suggestion
/// This method can be called either by the NEAR foundation or a whitelisted factory.
```

Author: This is only for the NEAR Foundation. The factory can't whitelist other factories.
